We will enhance the TrackZilla system to use declarative transaction
management and effectively roll back transactions.
I've opened the project in IntelliJ.
If you're following along with me in the code,
I've updated the code to take full advantage of Spring Data JPA by removing
the entity manager and relying fully on JpaRepository.
I remove the DAOs completely leaving only the interfaces.
I did this for the ReleaseDAO.
Notice it now extends JpaRepository.
I did this for the TicketDAO and the ApplicationDAO.
I also reorganized the scheduleRelease method.
So that's found in the ReleaseService down here on line 36.
It is now a bit more modular.
Now if you remember,
scheduleRelease is a two-step process that needs to
complete as one logical unit.
And if any piece fails, the entire transaction should fail.
So here, first, we create the tickets.
And then we assign the tickets to a release.
And if you notice, at the very top of our ReleaseService,
we have the @Transactional annotation.
I've also added detailed logging so that we can see the transaction output.
So if you navigate to application.
properties and notice here on line 18,
I've set it to trace the transaction behavior.
The application is up and running.
Let's exercise the scheduleRelease code by going to Postman.
We are posting to the schedule API.
We are sending this body.
It's going to send the list of tickets that need to be created.
It's also going to send the ID that the tickets should be associated to.
So let's click Send.
We see a status here of 200 OK.
So let's navigate back to IntelliJ and look at the output log.
In the log, we should see where the records are being inserted.
So let's search for insert into.
So here we see where the records are being inserted into the ticket table,
into the release ticket table, etc.
Let's navigate to the H2 console and see what's in the database.
Select TICKET, click Run.
We see four tickets in the completed status as expected.
So this transaction was able to complete as one logical unit.
So now let's test out the rollback capabilities when
using the @Transactional annotation.
So let's navigate back to Postman,
and let's select this post that calls the schedule API.
Let's look at the body.
So I am expecting this transaction to fail because I'm trying to
assign tickets to a release that doesn't exist,
release 0 doesn't exist.
And so we should see the tickets created and then rolled back.
So let's test this.
Let's click Send.
Notice here we have a 500 Internal Server Error.
That's to be expected.
Let's navigate back to IntelliJ and look at the log.
Let's search the log for rollback.
So here it's applying the default rules.
And so it initiates a transaction rollback.
So when we go to H2 and select tickets, it should be empty.
So let's navigate back to IntelliJ.
And now let's make changes to how rollbacks are handled.
So let's say I do not want to roll back whenever we see
the error No Such Element exception.
So this is going to happen when we try to assign
tickets to a release that doesn't exist,
to that release 0.
So we can control that by going to the ReleaseService and changing the
transaction advice on this @Transactional annotation.
So, specifically, let's say noRollbackFor NoSuchElementException.
So let's navigate back to Postman.
And, again,
notice we're trying to assign tickets to a release ID that doesn't exist.
Let's click Send.
So we see this 500 Internal Server Error.
That's to be expected.
But now we should see records in our database.
So let's navigate back there and click Run.
And so we still see our four tickets here.
Notice the status isn't Completed because we did not get to that step
of the transaction because the transaction failed.
Now, again, we turned off the rollback feature,
and so our tickets still show up here.
So now let's navigate back to IntelliJ and test out the propagation.
So here I'm still in the ReleaseService,
and now let's change the transaction advice or the parameters that we pass.
So now let's pass in propagation, and we are going to say Propagation.
REQUIRES_NEW, and we are going to set the readOnly flag to true.
We are requiring the flow to start a new transaction,
and then by setting readOnly to true, writes cannot be made.
So let's exercise this by navigating back to Postman.
Let's select this one that is assigning to a release that already exists.
Let's click Send.
And, great, we see a status of 200.
Now let's navigate to the H2 console and see if there are actually any tickets.
Select Ticket and click Run, and there are no tickets because we set readOnly to true.